---
layout: post
title: Mittelland Route from Romanshorn to Lausanne
categories: tour
tags: tour, mittelland, romanshorn, lausanne, lake, constance, geneva, jura, alps
---

Every year Easter is a good opportunity to go on a trip lasting several days. Four days off in a row and this year with great weather, sunshine and pleasantly warm temperatures. It's no wonder I won't miss this opportunity! This year I have decided on the Mittelland route, the national cycle route 5 from Romanshorn on Lake Constance to Lausanne on Lake Geneva. According to the plan, it is about 375 km, a pleasant distance for four days. For the three nights, I reserved the hotels in advance. So let's go!

## Day 1: Friday, 19th April 2019

Today I have to get up early! Pack up the last things and go to the station. From Lucerne, I take the train to Romanshorn, with a change in Zurich. Departure is at 07:10 a.m. on track 6. The good thing about Lucerne station is that it is a terminus station. So I can get to the train at ground level without having to use stairs, escalators or lifts. The bicycle compartment is almost full, I can just get one of the last free places. On the way to Zurich, which takes only three-quarters of an hour, I have time for a small breakfast.

It gets stressful in Zurich. I have exactly nine minutes to change trains and have to go from track 6 to track 33. The tracks in Zurich station are not only above ground, but also underground on several levels. I take the elevator to the first level, the next two levels on the escalator with my fully packed bike. I make good progress and make it on time. The train is already there, but in Zurich, they usually stand a few minutes longer than in other stations. Also in this train, the bicycle compartment is full to bursting and I grab the last bicycle place. Lucky again! Now it is still a little more than an hour to Romanshorn.

Now it comes to my mind why there are so many bicycles in both trains: Not only because of the beautiful weather and the Easter holidays but also because Romanshorn is located on Lake Constance and almost everyone here in the compartment would like to ride around Lake Constance over Easter! Sure, that's a good idea, I did it myself last year over Easter. But that's when I started in Constance, so I didn't immediately have this association. There will probably be a lot going on there, like last year. I hope that the Mittelland route will be much less busy.

At shortly after 9 o'clock I arrive on track 3 in Romanshorn. Everyone tries to get off the train with their bicycles as the first. I know that this is the terminus and that the train will stay here for a while. I wait until the compartment has cleared and then get off relaxed with my bike and luggage. I am happy to notice that track 3 is the first through track and tracks 1 and 2 ends at the station. So I can roll out of the station without any stairs or elevator. A final check to make sure that the luggage is well fastened and then I finally start at half past nine!

The Mittelland route begins directly at Romanshorn railway station. I make the first photo stop already after few hundred meters. Behind the station, there is a museum with old trains and wagons. I just take a few photos and drive on. After all, I just started. After only a little more than one kilometer, I leave the city. Suddenly the traffic decreases and I find myself in a spring-like blooming landscape. Meadows covered with dandelion alternate with flowering fruit tree plantations. Soon one of the few climbs follows and I get rid of my long cycling clothes to continue the ride in short trousers and shirt for the first time this year. My mood takes off: warm sun on my skin and on my bike through blooming landscapes, there is nothing more beautiful!

It goes up and down, however not mountainous, but rather hilly and the gradients can be driven still quite pleasantly and without large efforts. Then follows a relatively long section along the river Töss. Since rivers are very reluctant to flow uphill, this part is naturally very flat. For the most part, I make very good progress on well-paved gravel roads. Kilometer after kilometer, without getting tired. I'm motivated and it runs like clockwork.

Unfortunately, it will be over some time, the Töss and the Veloroute 5 separate. I get to feel this clearly, the steepest ascent of the tour is now ahead of me! The next 2 km / 1¼ mi are 130 m / 427 ft high. That's an average gradient of 17 %. The average is such a meaningless thing: The steepest part has a 23 % gradient! I fight my way up, meter by meter, accompanied by shortstops to get my breath back. At some point, after a felt eternity, I made it up with my bike and my luggage. As a reward, the rest of the day until my stage finish is only downhill. That's almost 20 km / 12 mi. Slightly downhill, but downhill.

But now a problem is on the rise. A technical one. I feel light shocks from the rear wheel, which become stronger with every kilometer. I make several visual checks, and can' t detect anything. There is no eight in the rim, it runs around and has no unbalanced. What can that be? I continue to drive carefully. Then the strength of the shocks suddenly increases. I stop, take out my tools and examine centimeters by centimeters of my whole rear wheel. Nothing to discover. Only when I let the air out to examine the part of the rim covered by the tire and the part of the tire covered by the rim I find it. At the area of contact between the tire and the rim, the tire has a crack over a length of 20 cm / 8 in! With me on the bike, the pressure was so high that the coat was bulged at the point by the air pressure of the tube and that led to the shocks. When I drop down, there is less weight and pressure on it and nothing to see. That's why I hadn't discovered anything before. A completely silly spot!

The tire (Continental Top Contact Winter II Premium) was still quite new, only little used and because I only wanted to be on the road for four days, I didn't have a spare tire. And no tools for the thru axle, because my spare tubes are from Gaadi and can be changed without removing the wheel. It is Good Friday, a holiday. What now? I don't have so many kilometers to the hotel anymore, so I give it some air and decide to drive slowly and carefully to the hotel. The tire will hold out for the few kilometers and then I can calmly think about what to do next. So I sneak towards the hotel with only a little more than walking speed. In Kloten, I pass the airport of Zurich and really make it to my hotel in Rümlang.

It was about 92 km / 57 mi today and it took me (without breaks and stops) about 5½ hours. Considering my problem with the rear wheel a more than acceptable time and distance! I have an appointment for dinner in Zurich tonight, but I'm going there by commuter train anyway.

After a refreshing shower, I use the time until then to think about what to do next. It is the Easter weekend, three holidays. In between a "normal" Saturday, but many shops "make the bridge" and have closed for four days in a row. That would mean for me that I would have to abort tomorrow morning and take the train home. That would be a big disappointment. I browse the Internet looking for bicycle shops that are open. In a forum, I describe my situation and ask for advice. I find several bicycle shops, which closed exactly this Saturday. Slightly depressed I let it be for today and make myself on the way to my date…

Later in the evening,r I get a hint about a bicycle shop in Zurich, which is supposed to be open tomorrow, via my request in the forum. I intend to try my luck there tomorrow morning.

  - [Video on Relive](https://www.relive.cc/view/g33254972143)
  - [Tour on Komoot](https://www.komoot.com/tour/62886339/zoom)

## Day 2: Saturday, 20th April 2019

Today I can sleep a little longer and take my time for breakfast. The bike shop doesn't open until 10 o'clock. I set off in time and drive with my damaged rear wheel very slowly and carefully to the shop. First, my joy is great, it is actually open! But the damper follows quickly: I am told that they already have too much to do. I was supposed to come back next week. The shop is empty, I'm the only customer, the work wouldn't take ten minutes. But nothing to do. I should look for other businesses on the Internet. Very unfortunate.

But I don't give up. I keep looking, going from shop to shop. Then I set myself a limit: If I don't have a solution to my problem by noon, I will cancel the trip. Then it happens, the little miracle: I find a bicycle shop that is open and helps me immediately! The people from Velo Zürich take care of my problem, mount a new tire and, for safety's sake, a new tube if the old one is damaged by the tire problem. It's not my dream tire (Schwalbe Marathon Almotion), they don't have it in stock, but a Schwalbe Big Ben Plus. Not a bad tire and more importantly: It's new, it's in one piece and I can continue my journey! Many, many thanks!

It's almost noon now and I can finally set off again. First I have to go back to Veloroute 5 because in the meantime I have ended up a few kilometers further south almost in the center of Zurich. It will be a very exhausting tour because the second stage is the longest of this trip with 115 km / 71 mi and I only have the afternoon left. So let's go. Only again to the north, this is very exhausting right at the beginning because I have to overcome the Hönggerberg. There it goes up very steeply. Motivated by the new tire and the solved problem, I make it and then there are a few more kilometers to the Mittelland route. The detour via Zurich cost me 20 km / 12 mi. But the lost time is even worse. Now I have to think about it all the time, so I hardly take a break.

At Adlikon I come across the cycle route 5 again, which leads off the main roads through a beautiful landscape. I am in an extremely good mood. Sure, it goes on now! One hour later I am already in Wettingen and reach another river, the Limmat. I treat myself to a few minutes break before I go through the very beautiful, winding old town of the adjoining Baden along the railway line, slightly ascending again into the countryside. The next place to go through is Brugg. On the way there I come across the third river, the Reuss. This river is known to me as Lucerne, as it flows through my hometown. Along the Reuss, we now enter Brugg. For reasons of time, I don't look at the mouth of the Reuss into the Aare but follow the cycle route further.

Still in Brugg, I reach river number four, the Aare. This is also well known to me because I lived in Aarau on the Aare for some years. That is still about 20 km / 12 mi upstream and the cycle route 5 also goes through there. I intend to take a longer break in Aarau, which is a little more than half of today's stage. As if I pedal hard and follow a single trail always directly along the Aare. This is a very, very nice section. Soon I meet more and more small villages along the river, which I know from my time in Aarau. I feel that I already need a break but I also know that it is not far to Aarau. This gives me a motivation boost and I reach Aarau around half past three in the afternoon.

As a reward for having made it this far today despite the problems, I treat myself to nice ice cream and something cool to drink at a gas station. I take that with me, because only a few hundred meters further on at the hydroelectric power station on the power station island I lie down under a tree in the grass for a well-deserved break and enjoy ice cream and cola. Wonderful!

But I have only managed a little more than half of the day's stage and it is already half past four. I'll manage the rest, but I'm worried about the hotel. Will the reception still be occupied when I arrive? I call them and, of course, they won't be there anymore! But no problem, they have a key box and give me an access code so that I can go to the hotel and the room myself afterward. Well, I called and clarified that. Now I can drive on calmly.

I took a break of about three-quarters of an hour and am now fit again for the next section. As the last hours, I continue along the river Aare. Here and there it is out of sight, but mostly the cycle route leads directly along the river. I know many of the places in this section very well because I often went with my bike from Aarau to work in Olten and mostly chose this way. In Olten, I almost pass the school where I teach once a week (TEKO Olten). Not far from here on the other side of the Aare I also worked a few years ago (MySign AG).

Also from Olten to Aarburg, I cycle along the well-known cycle path along the Aare. I also cycle this section coming from Lucerne, when I am on my bicycle to Olten for lessons. Behind Aarburg I enter new territory again. Always further directly at or in direct proximity of the Aare, it goes incessantly ever further to the west.

That's my stomach calling again. The last time I ate something I had in the morning at breakfast in the hotel. The ice in the afternoon doesn't count, my stomach explains to me. So I take a break, I finally have the key code for the hotel and eat on a bench at the Aare two Landjäger, which I always like to have with me as a nutritious emergency ration. That helps and soon I drive on strengthened.

When I come through Wangen on the Aare, I have to think of an ex-working colleague of mine. He doesn't live here, but in Wangen near Olten and whenever I read or hear Wangen, I think of him. We spent five good years together at MySign AG in Olten and went through a lot. Besides, there's always a lot on my mind when I'm on a bike trip like this anyway!

On my GPS I see the remaining kilometers to the hotel melting away. The sun is already low and after this exhausting day, I finally want to arrive and enjoy a refreshing shower. As if by myself my legs increase the cadence, I am almost in sprint mode! The last few kilometers I fly to the hotel in Solothurn and when I arrive at half past seven in the evening, a pleasant feeling of happiness and pride spreads in my chest that I have made it this far. All problems were solved and I was "on schedule" again, as the saying goes.

The reception was no longer manned, but the key code worked perfectly. Unfortunately, the hotel did not have a restaurant. So I plundered the minibar after the shower and plastered my last Landjäger for dinner. Also possible. Because I had no more motivation to leave the hotel and go on the search for a restaurant.

Altogether it was 134 km / 83 mi today and it took me (without breaks and stops) exactly 7½ hours. Not bad. Now the next two days can come, on which clearly shorter stages are lining up and I will hopefully remain spared from problems. I watch a TV-quiz and then leave satisfied into the land of dreams...

  - [Video on Relive](https://www.relive.cc/view/g33309317590)
  - [Tour on Komoot](https://www.komoot.com/tour/63196147/zoom)

## Day 3: Sunday, 21st April 2019

After the exhausting day yesterday I take it a little easier now. I sleep more or less well and then take my time for breakfast. Pretty much at 10 o'clock I am ready for the start and go back on the road. It is Easter Sunday and there is still very little going on. But that changes very quickly. The cycle route goes directly along the Aare again and the great weather on the holiday attracts crowds of people outside. The cycle path gets really full.

At Büren, Veloroute 5 leaves the Aare and instead follows the Niedau-Büren canal. Niedau is a suburb of Biel or rather more of a district than a suburb. Now it's 20 km / 12 mi along the southern shore of Lake Biel. Here it has a climb, which is quite steep but still easy to drive. At the top, there is a nice place to stop for a bite to eat, with cold drinks and snacks. The view of Lake Biel from here is simply fantastic! I treat myself to an apple and only take time for a few photos, then I continue. Not rushed, rather cozy. The way is the goal!

After a few more kilometers I reach the hydroelectric power station Hagneck. Everything is very new and beautifully done with lots of information about the technology and the nature around it. There is also a restaurant right next to the power station, but there was too much going on. The hydroelectric power station is fed by the Hagneck canal, which diverts the Aare from Aarberg to Lake Biel. The Niedau-Büren canal from earlier leads the Aare out of the lake back into the actual riverbed. The Aare between these canals carries very little water and lies in its old, winding riverbed. Therefore it is also called "Old Aare" here. The best way to see this is to look at the map.

Not much further is the most south-westerly point of Lake Biel already reached and the route continues over land to Lake Neuchâtel. The cycle route 5 makes a bigger loop of about 15 km / 9 mi. It also goes along the Canal de la Thielle, which connects Lake Biel with Lake Neuchâtel. Again a scenically beautiful, easy to drive and flat route. The transition to French-speaking Switzerland is now noticeable. The other cyclists and pedestrians no longer greet with Grüezi, but with Bonjour.

Shortly before the cycle path meets Lake Neuchâtel, there are still two ascents. These are not particularly steep, but after 75 km / 47 mi I notice them in my legs and when I reach the top I take a short break with a view of the lake. Where it goes up, it goes down again. A nice descent follows and the last few kilometers to my destination in Estavayer-le-Lac (yes, it became French) are hilly, but still pleasant to drive and there is a lot to see. At half past four, I arrive in Estavayer-le-Lac and am surprised how this small town presents itself right at the beginning. A beautiful old city wall with watchtowers and gate and a very interesting old town. Very big cinema! On the way to my hotel, I let the GoPro run along.

There is no dinner in my hotel, but a laundry service for cyclists. In the evening you can hand in your sweaty clothes and get them back freshly washed in the morning. I don't make use of this service, I have a hand wash paste in my luggage but today I was so comfortable and relaxed on the way that I didn't sweat and airing is sufficient. Tomorrow is also the last day, then everything goes into the washing machine anyway.

Today it was 95 km / 59 mi and it took me (without breaks and stops) just under 5½ hours. Everything went like clockwork, no problems at all, a great pleasure ride. I go into the town and reward myself with a (quite small and expensive) kebab and a bottle of cola. Back at the hotel, I relax with watching a documentary and spend a somewhat restless night, because the bed is very narrow for me and I have the feeling several times that I would fall out.

  - [Video on Relive](https://www.relive.cc/view/g33348169526)
  - [Tour on Komoot](https://www.komoot.com/tour/63410696/zoom)

## Day 4: Monday, April 22nd, 2019

Easter Monday. Fourth and last day of my Easter journey. The breakfast in my hotel was rather sparse. In hotels, I love these little sausages and scrambled eggs. Unfortunately both not there and not my multivitamin juice from which I always drink in the morning. Too bad, otherwise I actually liked it here. Today we only have about 75 km / 47 mi on the program, compared to the last days the shortest stage. Correspondingly relaxed I approach it. Since I was in bed relatively early yesterday, I had a good and early start today. Shortly before eight o'clock, I'm already sitting on my bike and on my way.

Now I have to bypass the rest of Lake Neuchâtel, the lake itself always within sight. Except for a short section of about 6 km / 4 mi along a busy road (on my own cycle path) mostly on small paths through nature. Unfortunately, the water in April is still too cold for bathing. At the end of the lake is Yverdon-les-Bains. There I take some pictures at the lake and without the meanwhile known noise of the water over the land I head quite directly south towards the destination Lausanne. There will be water to see again, and that not too barely -- Lausanne is on Lake Geneva.

Between meadows and fields, you pass through an agricultural landscape. In the north, the Jura arc is still present, while in the south, the clearly visible Alps with their snow-capped peaks grow with every turn of the wheel. Sometimes I find myself surrounded by hills and expect a climb, but then the cycle route leads through or around the hills. So I make the first 40 km / 25 mi without any significant ascent and in Sarraz I make the first longer break. Unplanned, I just passed the station there and the food machine caught my eye. A chocolate bar and a cool juice found their way into my throat. I take my time because I have more than enough of that today.

The refreshment is good for me because the next section is much hillier, I could already see that on the map. But I am very well in time and do not stress. Through lush green meadows and flowering, fragrant rapeseed it goes on and on towards Lausanne. On the slopes, there are more and more vines to be found. The climate around Lake Geneva is ideal for this. Through many small picturesque villages, I approach my destination. The lake comes into sight, from a hill almost 20 km / 12 mi away I see it for the first time. I fly now because it is now noticeably flatter again and to my motivation, the destination before my eyes, a strong tailwind joins in.

In the suburbs of Lausanne traffic is increasing significantly. Very significantly. Towards Lausanne, I drive along the main road. Mad traffic. Fortunately, there is a cycle path here. Despite here in Lausanne for the first time bad signage of the cycle route I find my way to the center of the lake, where the Mittelland route ends at the Cap de Vaudaire. I made it! Despite the initial problems! Simply awesome!

Today it was 75 km / 47 mi, which I covered (without breaks and stops) in about 4½ hours. With all the bypasses I have come in these four days a total of 408.8 km / 254 mi for which I have sat 19½ hours on my bicycle. This corresponds to an average speed of 21 km/h / 13 mph and I burned about 12'000 calories (activity calories without basal metabolic rate).

  - [Video on Relive](https://www.relive.cc/view/g33392608161)
  - [Tour on Komoot](https://www.komoot.com/tour/63700633/zoom)

I only stay here for a very short time, because it is extremely full and loud. Then I set off for the train station, where 10 minutes later a train with bicycle compartment leaves for Lucerne without changing trains. Ideal! I take that. Of course the bike compartment gets very full again, but I can get a place for my bike as well as a seat for myself. The ride takes a little more than two hours and due to some disturbances, there was an additional 20 minutes delay. But I don't care, I don't have to change trains and I'm still home early.

Arrived in Lucerne, I fetch something to take with me from the Asians in the train station, so that I can enjoy more than satisfied at home after a shower on the sofa. It was not only a great day but also a great little trip on a very recommendable, much too unknown cycle route.

Yours  
Marcus
